Trees :-


                                        Trees
                                          |
                                         ADT
                                          |
                                       1. Org. Charts
                                       2. File Systems
                                       3. Programming Environments
                                       4. Decision Tree

                 Trees Grouping
                    1. Binary Tree 2 children
                    2. Binary Search Tree
                    3. Sorted Binary Tree
                    4. AVL tree
                    5. Heap


                 Multiway Tree(any number of children)
                    1. Multiway Search Tree
                    2. m-way tree
                    3. B-tree
                    4. 2-4 tree


                  Types of Binary Tree
                  1. Rooted Binary Trees
                  2. Full/Strictly Binary Tree
                  3. Perfect Binary Tree
                  4. complete Binary Tree
                  5. Skewed Binary Tree




                 Rooted Binary Tree :-
                    A rooted Binary Tree is a binary tree that satisfies the following 2 properties
                        It has a root node.
                        Each node has at most 2 children.


                 Full/Strict Binary Tree :-
                    A binary tree in which every ode has either = or 2 children is called as a Full binary tree.
                    Full binary tree is also called as Strictly binary tree. First binary tree is not a full binary tree because node C has only 1 child

                 Perfect Binary Tree :-
                    A perfect binary tree is a binary tree that satisfies the following 2 properties
                    Every internal node has exactly 2 children.
                    All the leaf nodes are at the same level.

                 Complete Binary Tree :-
                    An complete binary tree is a binary tree that satisfies the following 2 properties
                    All the leaves are completely filled except possibly the last leave.
                    The last level must be strictly filled from left to right.

                 Skewed Binary Tree :-
                    A skewed binary tree is a binary tree that satisfies the following 2 properties
                    All the nodes except one node has one and only one child. THe remaining node has no child.
                                                    OR
                   A skewed binary tree is a binary tree of n nodes such that its depth is (n-1)


        What are Binary Tree Traversals
               Tree Traversal refers to the process of visiting each node in a tree data structure exactly once.

               Tree Traversal Techniques
                       1. Depth First Traversal
                            1. Preorder Traversal
                            2. Inorder Traversal
                            3. Postorder Traversal
                       2. Breadth First Traversal


               1. Pre-order Traversal
                     Algo :-
                        1. Visit the root
                        2. Traverse the left sub tree. call Preorder (left sub tree)
                        3. Traverse the rigth sub tree. call Preorder (right sub tree)

                     Root -> Left -> Right
               2. In-order Traversal
                     ALgo :-
                        1. Traverse the left sub tree. call In-order (left sub tree)
                        2. visit the root
                        3. Traverse the right sub tree. call In-order (right sub tree)

                     Left -> Root -> Right
               3. Post-Order Traversal
                     Algo :-
                        1. Traverse the left sub tree. call Postorder (left sub tree)
                        2. Travers the right sub tree. call Postorder (right sub tree)
                        3. visit the root

                     Left -> Right -> Root

               Breadth - First Traversal
                1. Breadth First Traversal of a tree prints all the nodes of a tree level by level.
                2. Breadth First Traversal is also called as Level Order Traversal.